-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to create a VPA manifest
required for our application, whatever we have deployed.
So vertical port autoscaler related manifest
we are creating now.
So if you see here, so it's APA version is auto scaling
ks i v one beta and the kind is vertical port autoscaler
and ized cube engineer vpa whatever we want to
put it in spec.
We have a few things, two important things
target reference and then resource policy.
So target references to which deployment you
are going to point to.
So my deployment is means
like to which application you are going to point
to and of what kind, whether it is a deployment
or state full set or whatever it is, right?
So mine is a API version.
Apps we one and its kind is deployment
and its name is VPA demo deployment.
So that information we have provided in target reference
and we also have resource policy where the policy related
to respect to container we need to define.
So in our part, if we have multiple containers
also per container how much it need to be defined.
Also you can provide the container name
and then provide the information.
So controlled resources we are doing is CPU
and then memory by vpa, vertical port
at scaler and minimum alert is whatever we have put
in our request section.
Okay? So in request section, okay
and max load how much it is allowed
for my respective deployment for this respective container
how much it is load is one CPU
and then memory is 500 mi it is allowed.
So that is the max limit it can use and but it can use
this is the max limit but it can use anything
between five M two one cpu, 0.00521 cpu
how much it want it can use and even memory also
from five MI two 500 mi, it can use how much it want.
It can use that much.
So based on the load, whatever it is coming, it is going
to auto configure our respective parts resources there
and then let us know.
So if we describe the part after generating some load
we'll know that how much it is going to be.
So that's about the VPA manifest.
Okay, so we can even see the same manifest here.
Z zero two VPA manifest.
Okay, so let's go ahead
and then deploy our VPA manifest Q CTL apply hyphen F
and cube manifest.
And inside that we have zero two VPA manifest dot yml.
So let's deploy this and then we can say cube ctl
get VPA to see our list of our VPs.
So we have one VPA Q CTL describe VPA
and cube engineer is the name of the cube engines VPs.
So let's make paste it here and we can see that.
So for container names star
okay Max Lotes CPU one and then memory is 500 I.
So that's about the information, the policy
of vertical port scaler for our respective deployment.
Whatever we have defined, we can see it here.
Okay, so the next thing here is we'll go here
and then we'll generate some load
and then test what happens.
Okay, so on terminal one we are going to put clear
and I'm going to say cube CT get parts
and then keep watching the ports.
So I have four ports here which are running
from six minutes.
Okay, so now I'm going to take a new terminal
and then paste the command, which is
It should not be, Hello?
It should be just til here.
Okay, so let me fix this off as it is cube engine image.
So on the root context itself, we have the index
do TML reality didn't apply any hello vault service here.
So it is just a slash okay, so I'm going to run this
on three terminals continuously.
Okay, so let me go here and then paste it and run it.
Okay, so in one more also I'm going to run it and
in one more also I'm going to run it.
Okay, so and then let me see how it goes.
Okay, so what happened?
So let me take one more time.
So we are going to copy one by one and then why?
Because the names are going to be different.
Apache bench one, Apache bench two and then
Apache bench three.
So let me copy bench one here and then run it.
And this is bench two.
Okay, already exists.
So here it is running, no, what happened?
So let me close, close right so we can run it
Right? So anywhere one load is also sufficient for us.
We can see it here.
So continuously it is changing
it is terminating and then recreating the pods.
Okay? So if you want you can go here
and then get pods and then take a newly created pod.
Okay? So which is 68 seconds before
okay cube C here describe pod
and then verify this 68 seconds latest created pod copy
and then past it, right?
And then if you see here it is taking 25 M and then 26, 2 4
this is this much CPU and then memory it is requesting.
But ideally how much we have allocated
we have allocated only this much.
If you see here in our re respect tool deployment manifest.
Okay, so that's about it.
So it is taking automatically and then allocating it based
on the load, how much we are getting.
So if you want we can even say get port watch
and then some more ports will be terminating
and then recreating it based on the need, how much we need.
Okay, so all these port already terminated and then
recreated. Okay, so that's about it.
So cube CTL get ports one more time
if you want we can check.
Okay, so this, these are running from three minutes
we can even see those information
how much it is taking, okay, so that you get a clarity
on what happened, copy and then past it.
So for this it is 25 M and then 2 6 2 1 4 4 K.
So from whatever we have requested
vertical port autoscaler automatically increased the CPU
and then memory of our four ports.
So which means al port where we have increased the number
of ports for our application from 1 2 10
but when we come to vpa, vertical port data scaler
so all four parts are going to be as is four parts
but they CPU and then memory got increased based
on the load, whatever we are getting right?
So that's about it if you want to run more
and more load so you can keep running these things
in different different terminals.
Okay, so in one terminal with Apache bench as your pardon
you are going to run in another terminal
you're going to run it as Apache bench two
and then in another terminal you're going to run it
as Apache bench three part names I am saying okay
so that it'll get more and more load
and then you'll get more clarity
on how much it is going to increase based on the load.
But as far as we have seen how VPA work
we already got the clarity.
So now a few important notes
about VPA is VPA updater can relaunch Newport
with updated CPU n memory when you
at least have two parts in deployment.
So this is very important.
So we have four parts, that's the reason two parts at a time
for if you see here that is the important catch point here
okay, so for these two parts it is four minutes, 54 seconds
as they launch time right from, it's like it, it took
from last four minutes they are running and these two parts
it is running from three minutes 54 seconds.
So what it does is, so out of four parts
first it took two parts and then modified its CPU
n memory and then relaunched it and then it waited
for one more minute and then launch it again.
Two more parts with with the, again the CPU N memory.
So it didn't make any of the entire services down
it ensured that it has done in a rolling update fashion.
So, but when, what happens if it is only one pod you have.
So that also we need to understand right
if we have only one pod running
unless we manually delete that part, it will not
launch a new quad with the VPA recommended CPU
N memory considering the application availability scenario.
So it is very intelligent
and then understands that there is only one part
and then if you term, if I terminate
and then recreate it due topa recommendations
there will be downtime for the application I I
should not be the cause for that downtime.
So it'll feel that way and then it'll ensure
that that part it is not going to delete
if it is only one part in your deployment.
So if we terminate it manually go and then terminate it
then it is going to relaunch
with new VPA recommended CPU and then memory resources.
So that's
about the very important point we need to know about vpa.
So let's go ahead and then delete whatever we have created
as part of this section.
Okay, so I'll go here and then clear the stuff.
And Q ctl, delete H and F Q manifest.
So whatever the VP we have created
and then deployment and then service, it got deleted.
So this completes the vertical port Autoscaler demo.
And then understanding
in our next lecture we are going to focus
on cluster autoscaler four elastic service eks.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.